Good afternoon everyone
and welcome to session 417,
introducing
AV Foundation Capture For Lion.
My name is Brad Ford and I will be
your host for the next hour and maybe
more if you choose to stay around.
Here's what we're going
to talk about today.
Why and when you should
use AV Foundation Capture,
the AV Foundation Capture
programming model,
and differences between
AV Foundation capture
between Lion and iOS.
Keep a close watch out for
those two badges there,
the new and the only on Mac OS,
because you'll see a lot of that.
Pretty much everything we
talk about here today is new,
either new on Mac OS or new in general.
The sample code for this session,
we have four sample apps,
and last I checked,
three of them were published already.
You can follow along
at that specified URL.
The fourth should be up there shortly.
Let's start by doing a brief
history of capture on Mac OS.
Set your way back machine to classic Mac.
Video digitizer components were
introduced in QuickTime 1.0.
Does anyone know when that was?
Anyone?
This isn't stump the experts, but--
That was December of 1991,
which was 20 years ago.
And in case you're curious,
this is what engineers
looked like in those days.
Jim Batson: I'm Jim Batson and I've been
working in the QuickTime sleep
deprivation experiment.
Thanks.
Video digitizer
components served us well.
They still are the means for
third parties to deliver video
device drivers on our OS.
And they've been around for 20 years.
Now that was a pretty hardcore,
low-level set of APIs to use.
So shortly after,
we came up with the Sequence
Grabber in QuickTime 1.5.
These were considered high-level,
easy-to-use capture interfaces.
These APIs still work today,
and the video quality
was much improved in 1.5,
as you can see here.
And curiously enough,
both of these men still work at Apple.
Now let's push forward to Mac OS X,
the more recent history,
where Qt Kit was introduced with modern
Objective-C capture APIs in 2005.
We did this because we felt we
needed a simpler programming model,
something that fit in better
with the rest of Mac OS X.
And it sits atop core media,
or what we sometimes call
in marketing QuickTime 10,
which is the more modern
underpinnings for QuickTime.
And it provides a legacy bridge
back to the 32-bit world,
so it grandfathers in these
VDIG or video digitizer components.
These APIs, as you might expect,
also still work today,
and they are in fact the preferred
capture mechanism on Mac OS X.
Until now.
Let's talk about AV Foundation.
It was introduced in iOS 4 for iPhone,
iPad, and iPod Touch.
And by show of hands,
who here has used iOS
AV Foundation Capture APIs?
Okay, almost everybody.
That's good.
The ideas for AV Foundation Capture
were inspired by QtKit.
We did this on purpose.
We felt the interfaces
worked really well,
so we wanted to keep the familiarity.
They also sit atop
Core Media or QuickTime 10.
And we felt that to get wide
developer adoption of these
new AV Foundation capture APIs,
we couldn't deliver something
that was feature hobbled.
So we really worked hard to encompass
all of QtKit's capture features in
our 1.0 release of AV Foundation.
So we think we've done that,
encompassing all of the
QtKit capture API features.
We also provide new features
that were not available and
will not be available in QtKit.
And for the first time,
we're supporting third-party core
media I/O video device drivers.
This is an opportunity, finally.
finally to write modern video
device drivers for Mac OS X.
and it's available in Lion and Forward.
So now you might be
scratching your head thinking,
well, which am I supposed to use,
Qt Kit or AV Foundation?
The answer is,
AV Foundation.
Really.
All new development should
be using AV Foundation.
The only caveat would be
You need to continue to use QtKit if
you need legacy VDIG support.
As I mentioned, we do not grandfather the
32-bit world into AV Foundation,
so you'll need to stick
with QtKit for that.
If you need legacy video encoder support,
when I say legacy encoders,
I mean things like Sorenson Video, RLE,
some of these older encoders that don't
have a place in the modern world when
we have very good replacements for them.
Those also are not
supported in AV Foundation.
And if you need to run on
Snow Leopard or earlier,
you'll need to stick with
QtKit as AV Foundation capture
APIs are not going backwards,
only forwards.
Now let's look at where
AV Foundation sits in the
technology framework hierarchy.
As you see,
there are a lot of green boxes there,
and AV Foundation is the top
one below the thin blue line.
AV Foundation is the one
that we're talking about,
but it relies heavily on CoreMediaIO,
CoreMedia.
These are C-based frameworks
that do the heavy lifting.
And above the thin blue line,
that's where you come in.
You can write your apps using
AV Foundation and interface directly
with those Objective-C APIs.
And now for the first time,
you get to participate below
the lower thin blue line.
If you are a device driver writer,
we welcome you to come talk to us in the
labs about how you can write your device
driver for Mac OS X using CoreMediaIO.
So the theme for today is new in Lion,
more features, more flexibility.
Especially if you're familiar
with AV Foundation on iOS,
you'll be impressed with the
number of new features that
we've introduced in Lion.
First off,
AV Capture device enhancements.
We support discovery and selection
of supported frame rates and formats,
which is something we
couldn't do in QtKit.
System-wide device sharing,
locking of shared devices
for configuration,
and support for closed captions
from real-time devices.
Also on the output side,
we support compressed
AV capture video data output,
which is a long sought
after feature on the phone.
and support for arbitrarily
complex AV capture sessions.
If you've worked with
our APIs embedded on iOS,
then you're familiar with some of
the restrictions we have there where
you are not allowed to use certain
combinations of inputs and outputs.
All of those restrictions are
lifted on the desktop where you can
go crazy and make as complicated
a session as you would like.
Lastly, three new classes,
which are only available on Lion.
AV Capture screen input,
audio preview output,
and audio file output.
Audio preview output we
won't spend much time on.
It does what you would expect.
It previews the audio in real time.
And it synchronizes it with a video
preview if you're showing one.
And the audio file output also we
will not spend very much time on.
But it allows for frame accurate writing
of audio files into the common formats,
such as CAF, AIF, and WAV.
From an AV Capture session.
Time for our first slide
about the programming model.
Capture basics.
How do we look at the
world in AV Foundation?
We look at the world
as inputs and outputs.
When my mom asks me
what I do for a living,
I usually tell her that
I'm a bit shoveler.
Which means I just take the bits and
I put them from one place to the other.
And that's what AV Foundation does too.
It sees everything as
an input and an output.
What I'm talking about here is,
let's say you've got a
shiny new MacBook Pro.
It's got a camera on it,
a FaceTime HD camera.
And from that camera you might want to do
real-time previewing into a video layer,
or perhaps capture still
images in high quality.
Maybe you just want to get video frames
into a delegate call so that you can
process them and look for patterns.
or the traditional thing,
which would be to capture the
output to a QuickTime movie.
Likewise, all modern machines have
built-in audio microphones,
and we support third-party
audio hardware as well.
And from those, you might want to, again,
get the audio data into your
process for manipulation or
write it to a QuickTime movie
or preview it to the speakers.
And then there's a third kind of
input that we support on Lion,
which is the screen.
If you have a screen or
any portion of the screen,
you might want to grab some of
that and send it to all of these
places we've just talked about.
Still images, video output,
or a QuickTime movie.
Here's what this looks
like to AV Foundation.
There is an AV capture
session in the middle.
This is the center of our universe.
It's the place where you hook up the
inputs and you hook up the outputs,
and it's the place where you
control the flow of data.
You start the session running in order
to get the inputs producing input
and the outputs consuming the data.
On the top, we have AV capture inputs.
On the bottom, AV capture outputs.
And the preview for video
is a little bit different.
Because it's a video preview layer,
it does not descend from a common
parent class like the outputs.
It descends from CA layer,
so it can fit right into a
core animation layer tree.
The rest of the talk will be
talking about four use cases,
which you see here,
and we'll take these one by one,
the first of which is controlling
the camera and recording movies.
So let's switch over to the demo machine
and we'll look at our first demo.
AV Recorder is an aptly
named application.
It records A and V.
Okay, AV Recorder,
the sample code you have,
so you can follow along if you'd like to.
Very simple application here that's
highlighting the kinds of things
that we can do with the devices
that we could never do with Qt Kit.
So you'll see on the top I've
got my video device or devices.
I happen to have a DV camera hooked
up as well as my FaceTime HD camera.
I also have some audio devices connected.
[Transcript missing]
Not all applications want
this automatic behavior.
Sometimes you know exactly
the resolution that you want,
exactly the frame rate that you want,
and you don't want it changing
out from underneath you.
And we support that using
this lock for configuration,
which I'll talk more about in the slides.
But when I lock video
device for configuration,
let's say I go and try to
change my preset to something
high like 1280 by 720.
You'll notice that it changed
to a different preset,
but the video device
stayed put where it was.
That's because it is
locked for configuration.
No one's allowed to touch it.
And so if another process comes along
and tries to also do IO with the camera,
they can get buffers from the camera,
but they're not allowed to configure it.
You can probably see
where I'm going with this.
Please be a good citizen on Mac OS X.
Because these devices are shared,
it's a good idea to be accepting
of many formats and not expect
that you'll be able to get exactly
what you want all the time.
I did not demo recording, but trust me,
it records movies.
And if recording from a DV camera,
these transport controls also
become enabled and you're able
to do device transport control.
So we'll go back to slides and
talk about how we did that.
Again, from the high level,
AV Recorder looks like this.
It's using the FaceTime camera
or the DV camera.
We saw a live video preview.
It was capturing to QuickTime movies.
It also was capturing from the built-in
microphone to a QuickTime movie and
doing a real-time output to the speaker.
I turned the volume far down
because I didn't want to hurt
your ears with audio feedback.
And in AV Capture parlance,
that looks like a session in the middle.
An AV capture device for
each of those devices,
but notice you do not plug a
device directly into a session.
Sessions want inputs,
so you have to associate a device
with a capture device input before
you can add it to the session.
And then on the output side,
we had a movie file output
and an audio preview output.
And then for the video preview,
we used the AV Capture
Video Preview layer.
To create the AV Capture session,
it's just a few lines of code.
Alloc and init your session and
specify the preset that you want.
That determines the baseline
quality level that you want
to receive in your outputs.
Find a suitable AV capture device.
Here I'm just using the default
device with media type video.
As a hint,
the default device on any computer
that you get is always going to be
a FaceTime camera if it has one.
You then create and add an
AV capture device input.
So you associate that device with an
input and then say session add input.
Now you're done with the input side.
For the output side,
it's also very simple.
Create a movie file output,
add it to your session as an output,
create the audio preview output,
and also add it to your session.
To create the video preview layer,
you don't add it to the session.
You associate it with the session
by calling layerWithSession.
That's so that the layer owns
the session and not vice versa.
You can put the layer into a rendering
tree and forget about the session,
and it will just clean up
after itself when it's done.
You set a frame to get an initial
rectangle and then add it to some
parent layer of a view that you have.
And then start the session running.
And you're done.
That's the guts of what we just
saw happening in AV Recorder.
To enumerate AV capture device formats,
you can loop through the
device's property formats,
and you'll get an array of
AV capture device formats.
Each one can tell you the media type,
be it video, audio, mux.
And you can also get a
CM format description,
which is a core media reference
counted object that gives you a lot
of information about the format,
including any extensions involved.
And then to find out about
the supported frame rates,
you can iterate through the
format's video-supported frame
rate ranges and find out exactly
which formats it supports.
To select a device format,
you must lock the device
for configuration first and
then set its active format.
Now let's go through the important
AV capture device concepts,
some of which I skimmed over in the demo.
It allows you to set the
format and frame rate.
But not all devices expose
formats and frame rates.
Let me give you an example.
An HDV camera or a DV camera,
they don't know,
they can't let you set the
format because the format is
dictated by what's on the tape.
So you must accept
whatever format you get.
So when you ask it for its list
of formats and frame rates,
it doesn't have one.
AV Capture Session will try to
configure the devices automatically
for you so that you get the best
input for your desired output.
And AV capture devices are
shared across the system,
so be aware that when you ask for
a particular input from the device,
you may be affecting other apps that are
sharing that camera at the same time,
like Photo Booth or iChat.
The last one in always wins.
Unless someone is holding
that lock for configuration,
the last person to ask for the
device to change formats always wins.
You can use lock for configuration
to gain exclusive control,
but please be judicious with that
use and unlock for configuration
after you're done configuring
it to be a good OS X citizen.
Lastly, since lock devices may still
be used in other processes,
you need to code defensively.
Don't assume that you'll be able to
lock for configuration successfully.
You may not be able to because
it's already locked in another app.
Switching cameras is equally
trivial in AV Foundation.
What we did not want is for
people to have to write a lot of
code where they stop a session,
do a lot of configuration,
and then start the session again,
because then they would have
to pay the penalty for all
the time it takes to stop,
and then all the time
it takes to restart.
So instead,
we encourage a model where you
keep things running all the time,
and then you reconfigure while running.
And you do that by using begin
configuration and commit configuration,
which are methods on
the AV Capture session.
Here's what the code would look like.
So instead of stopping the
session to remove one camera
and then add another camera,
you see here I begin configuration,
then I remove the input
that I don't want,
add the input that I do want, and commit.
Only when the last commit pops off the
stack do I get the behavior where it
performs all of my operations at once.
Movie recording considerations.
This is how you do a movie
recording with AV Foundation.
You initiate a QuickTime movie recording
by supplying a file URL and a delegate.
And in that recording delegate,
only one method is mandatory.
You have to tell us what
to do when it finishes.
So you must implement this
one delegate callback,
did finish recording
to output file at URL,
in which you will handle the success
or failure of the movie being recorded.
This is a new feature in Lion only.
AV Capture movie file output
supports frame accurate start and
stop using a new delegate that
does not exist on iOS called the
AV Capture File Output Delegate.
This delegate receives frames all
the time when you're recording
or when you're not recording.
So every single buffer that would
conceivably be written to the file,
you get to look at it.
And so based on this one buffer,
you can look at its metadata
or process it or figure out,
does this have the time
code that I'm looking for?
And start a capture from
within that callback.
And you are guaranteed to have the movie
start exactly on that frame boundary.
You can also stop, pause,
or resume within that callback.
So it is possible to get exactly frame
accurate recordings on frame boundaries.
It is, of course, optional.
If you just need a simple start and stop,
you don't need to use
this delegate method.
Likewise,
we support pause and resume on Lion.
You can get the frame accurate behavior
by using that same capture output,
did output sample buffer from
connection call in which you would call
pause recording or resume recording.
You can also set limits with the
AV Capture movie file output.
Set max recorded duration, file size,
or free disk space limit.
If you set any of those parameters,
then your callback might be
called spontaneously when
one of those limits is hit.
Now you need to take care here.
If you get an error in your did finish
recording to output file at URL,
that doesn't necessarily mean
that the file is no good.
See what I've highlighted here?
You check the error and its
user info dictionary because it
will come back with an error if
one of your conditions was met,
such as the file size limit was exceeded.
It will tell you that in the error,
but by looking at the
user info dictionary,
you can find out whether the
recording finished successfully.
Early termination conditions
are enumerated here.
The disk may have filled up,
or a device might have
gotten disconnected because
someone kicked the cord,
or duration reached or file size reached.
Metadata.
We allow you to insert custom
metadata into your movies,
and unlike properties that need to be
set before you start the recording,
you can set movie-level metadata at any
time while the recording is in progress.
We did this because we recognize
that some metadata is not ready to
go when you start the recording,
such as GPS location where
it can be slow to come in.
So if at any time while
you're recording a movie,
you set the movie file
output's metadata property,
it will still wind up in the movie.
We reserve space for it.
So there you see I'm setting
the location metadata to a
given latitude and longitude,
adding it to the metadata array
and then adding it to the movie.
Movie fragments are a
really cool technology that
help with crash protection.
Here's how we record QuickTime movies.
Normally a QuickTime movie
that you would find,
say, on the web will look like this.
It's got a movie header at the top.
That's where it has all the
information about samples,
formats, where they are located
in the rest of the movie.
And then the big blue
part is the actual data.
So you need the orange part at the
top to tell you where to find the
sample offsets in that blue part.
That's a well-formed,
fast start QuickTime movie.
For the capture case,
we can't do that because we
don't know how long the recording
is going to be up front.
We allow you to start writing
to disk before we know how
long you're going to record.
So we actually put the movie header,
in this case a footer,
at the back of the file and
the movie data is at the front.
You see the problem
inherent with this strategy.
If you crash in the middle before we
have a chance to write the movie header,
you have a big file that's useless.
So new in AV Foundation,
we have QuickTime movies with
what's called movie fragments.
And the default is to
have movie fragments on.
We write a small header at the top
that accounts for the first N seconds.
By default, it's 10.
And then from there on out,
every 10 seconds,
we'll lay down a movie fragment,
which are those little Fs.
And they record the information
about the movie up to that point.
So if at any point you crash,
you're good up to the last point
where a fragment was written.
The movie will,
if you have a two hour recording
and then in two hours and one
minute someone kicks the cord,
it's still good.
So do use movie fragments.
It gives you crash protection.
And you are able to specify
the movie fragment interval
at the movie file output.
Let's move on to our second case,
which is AV Screen Shack,
capturing the screen
to a QuickTime movie.
AV Screen Shack is an equally
simple application that does
little screen recordings.
Ah, the eternal tunnel.
I love this.
This is the video equivalent
of an audio feedback loop.
Don't look into the tunnel,
it goes back forever.
You'll never get out.
Yes, it is sort of like Inception.
So you can see here that I'm
recording the full screen output.
As I move the preview around,
you can see what kind of
latency we're getting,
and that's because I've
set a max frame rate of 15.
This app exposes some of the
properties that you can play around
with with the AV capture screen input.
I'm going to do a crop rect
here by pushing the set button.
When I do that, I can specify just a
subsection of the screen.
I'll select the top left portion.
And now what I'm going to be recording
is only that little bit there.
So when I move my mouse around up here,
you'll see I'm just
recording that section.
I'm going to go ahead and buck up the
max frame rate to something like 35.
And I'll say capture mouse clicks
and then push the start button.
So we see that we are
capturing a movie over here.
When I go up here and I move it around,
Or when I click,
you'll see there's a little black
circle drawn around the mouse.
That's to indicate that
it's capturing mouse clicks.
And when I stop, it'll go ahead and open
QuickTime Player and show me
the movie that I captured.
And indeed, it did capture a movie
to the specified format,
and we can see it moving the
window around when it gets there.
There we go.
Okay.
We'll go back to slides
and see how we did that.
AV Screen Shack starts
with a single input,
which is the screen.
It previews the output from it to
a video preview layer and writes
it out to a QuickTime movie.
So a very simple application
that's available right now.
You have instead of a
device with a device input,
it's just an AV capture
screen input and a movie file
output and the preview layer.
So here are some of the features
that you saw me playing around with.
Fast frame grabbing.
It supports up to 60 frames
per second on recent hardware.
It also does efficient color
space conversion to 2VUI
for video applications.
So by default,
it will be producing 2VUI data.
It also respects protected content,
so if you have DRM content
displaying on the screen,
it knows to black that rectangle out.
Usage.
It grabs frames from a
specified CG direct display ID.
When you create the
AV capture screen input,
you tell it which display
you want to capture from.
It does not, however,
support capturing across
two displays at once.
You can use setCropRect to specify
just a subsection of the display.
Set scale factor to capture and scale.
If you want, say,
the whole screen but you don't
want a screen-sized movie,
you can scale down and it will
preserve the aspect ratio.
You can use set min frame
duration to adjust the max
frame rate that it will deliver.
It's not like a capture device where it
has set frame rates that it can support,
so you need to tell it what
kind of frame rate you want.
Also,
you can set captures mouse clicks to
draw a mouse ring around the mouse.
All right, on to our third case,
which is processing
frames from the camera.
And to do this, we're going to use a
demo called Stop and Go.
OK, Stop and Go.
I'm actually going to show you code.
I hope you're not afraid.
Never done code on stage from Xcode.
Let's see if it works.
Stop and Go is an app that
does stop motion animations.
So first I'll give you a preview
of the UI that we're creating here.
So we get, again,
a little window that lets
us start to take a movie.
And when we start,
it asks us where we want to record it to.
And then whenever I take a picture,
it's going to record that
picture into the movie.
So you can have fun with it like this.
Stop.
And then the movie we wind
up with... looks funny.
Okay, so how did we do that?
You'd be surprised how few lines
of code it actually requires.
We set up AV Capture by selecting a
video device and making the input.
In this case,
I could have chosen video from
either a MUX input or a video input.
I said,
choose a device that has the video type
of input so that we'll only consider
the front-facing FaceTime HD camera.
And then I made an input for
it and added it to the session.
Then I created the still image
output and made my preview layer
Telling it what kind of aspect
ratio to use by setting the video
gravity and setting the frame.
and then started the session running.
That's it for the input side.
Now,
I'm not capturing to an AVCapture movie
file output because I want precise
control over when the frames get written.
I only want a still image
per video frame in the movie.
So instead, I'm using something called an
asset writer to do the writing.
The only tricky part of this
application is that I restamp the video.
When I get each buffer from the still
image output by calling capture still
image asynchronously from connection,
I get a CM sample buffer
with the image data in it.
And it is timestamped with exactly
the time in which it was captured.
But that's no good for my movie,
which I want to follow along
on a different timeline.
So I create a copy of it using CM sample
buffer create copy with new timing,
which is not a deep copy.
It's just making a new
wrapper with new timing.
And I restart the timing at zero.
And I increment it by whatever
the frame rate is supposed
to be for the given movie.
And then I call AV Asset Writer
Append Sample Buffer for each
video frame that I want to append.
The rest of the code in the app is
just some tear down of the asset
writer and the UI to start and stop.
My kids have been having a field day with
this application over the last few days.
They're my beta testers.
Here's one of the movies that they made.
And here's my favorite.
You guess whether a boy
or girl did this one.
Hmm.
So, fun with stop motion animation.
Now I think would be an appropriate
time to talk about CM sample buffers
since we were using one of those
low-level heavy lifting kind of objects.
CM Sample Buffer, again,
is defined in core media,
cmsamplebuffer.h.
It's a reference-counted
core foundation object,
which contains first and
foremost the sample data.
If it's an uncompressed video frame,
you can get at that CV pixel
buffer by calling get image buffer,
CM sample buffer get image buffer.
And once you have that pixel buffer,
you can lock the base address
and start actually looking at the
pixels in that CV pixel buffer.
It also has timing information,
and that's what I was manipulating
to get the stop motion effect.
It has every CM sample buffer
has a presentation time,
and it might optionally have a
decode time if the presentation
and decode times are different.
And it might also have a duration.
And importantly,
it has a format description
which travels along with it.
This is another
Core Foundation reference counted object.
So it's very cool that every buffer
that flows through the system
always has the format attached
to it in a lightweight fashion.
It's just a reference count being bumped.
From that format description,
you can find out things about the video.
For instance, its dimensions.
Also traveling along with the sample
buffer will be interesting metadata.
Metadata about the camera,
processing instructions
about the CM sample buffer,
and you can attach your own
metadata to a CM sample buffer
as it travels through a pipeline.
Let's take an aside for a minute
and talk about output settings.
Because I want to make it very
clear when and where format
conversions happen within AV Capture.
All file and data outputs in
Lion support customized output settings.
This is something new.
In iOS,
only the video data output and audio data
output and still image output allow you
to kind of sort of override the output.
They'll let you select
a different format.
But in Lion,
we let you really configure the output.
By default,
the AV capture session is going
to determine the baseline output
settings for each output in your graph.
It does that based on the session
preset that you've selected.
So for a given session preset, say,
"Hi," it's going to determine that
that should mean maybe 3.5 megabits
per second H.264 for the video data
output or for the movie file output.
You can set custom output settings
on each output to override
the session's session preset.
Once you've done that,
those output settings stick.
So even if you change the capture session
preset or the input device to something
other than what it was configured for
at the time you set the output settings,
they will stick.
So even if you've set a
higher quality on the input,
we'll do additional format
conversions in order to satisfy what
your output is currently set for.
If you want to get pass-through,
you want to get exactly what
the device is producing,
you can set an empty dictionary
of output settings on your output.
And to get back to the session
presets default behavior,
the baseline,
you can set the output settings to nil.
And then it will go back and
start choosing by default
what it thinks is best.
Here's what video settings look like.
Again, it's a dictionary-based approach.
You give it a dictionary of stuff that
you want it to apply to the output.
You must at least have a video codec
specified or a CV pixel format if
you're doing an uncompressed format.
Here I chose H.264.
You'll want a width and a height.
Here I'm specifying 720p.
And then optionally you
can choose to include some
compressor-specific properties.
H.264 has many of them.
Here I chose bit rate to specify
a 10.5 megabits per second and a
keyframe interval to specify that
I want it to insert keyframes.
at least every second.
The next part, the scaling mode,
is something that we're going to
talk about in a minute in more depth.
Once you've created your
dictionary of settings,
you can call your output and say,
"Set output settings," and now you've
overridden the session's default.
Let's talk about the supported
video formats in AV Foundation.
Of course, we support H.264,
which is our canonical compressed
format for all kinds of applications.
We also support JPEG.
and ProRes in two flavors.
The 44441 is a great format
as a mezzanine format.
It preserves high bit depth
source up to 12 bits per channel.
It has a mathematically lossless alpha
channel and does no subsamplings.
This is a perfect one if you want
smaller files but really no quality loss.
We also support Apple ProRes 422,
which produces slightly
smaller files than the 4444,
but does do chroma subsampling.
sampling.
We also support lots and
lots of CVPixel formats,
so pretty much every uncompressed
format that is supported by Core Video.
Now let's delve into
these video scaling modes.
This warrants some extra consideration.
There are four video scaling
modes supported at the output.
The first one is called Fit.
It crops the source processing
region and scales down if necessary,
always preserving aspect ratio,
but it will never ever upscale.
So this is a good one
to use for like presets.
If you don't know exactly
what the input is going to be,
but you want to create a
preset that works across a
lot of different applications,
the Fit mode is a good one to use.
It is the default scaling mode for
most of our capture session presets.
Let me give you a concrete example.
When you're using the Fit mode,
let's say you're coming from
a 1280x720 source and you've
specified a 640x640 output box,
but you've also told it to
use the Fit scaling mode.
Well, it's going to preserve the
aspect ratio and scale it down
to fit inside that 640x640 box,
and what you wind up with is 640x360.
If you have a smaller input source like
320x240 and you specify 640x640 with Fit,
again, it never does any scaling up,
so you get exactly 320x240.
This is why it's good for presets.
If you know you don't want to upscale,
you can use this mode.
The second one is called the resize mode,
or what I call funhouse mode.
It crops the source to remove
any edge processing region,
and then it scales the remainder
to the destination box.
So it's going to stretch it or squish it,
whatever it has to do
to fit within the box,
not preserving aspect ratio.
So again, if we take our guy with the dog
and put him into 640 by 640,
he's going to get squished.
Likewise, if we have a 320x240 source,
it will be scaled up and
also slightly squished.
If you use the resize aspect mode,
or what I call the letterbox mode,
it will do aspect ratio preservation
on the source and will fill the
remainder of the destination box
with black bars if it needs to.
So let's take our guy again.
It's going to preserve the aspect ratio,
but it's going to honor that
640 by 640 box you wanted,
so it's going to put black
bars on top and bottom.
Likewise with 320 by 240,
since that doesn't line
up exactly with a square,
you're going to get some
black bars on the sides.
The last one is aspect fill,
or what I call the zoom mode.
The zoom mode preserves source
aspect ratio while scaling,
but it really wants to show some video
in the whole box that you've specified.
So it's going to crop the picture
to fit within the destination box.
So if the aspect of source and
destination are not exactly equal,
you're going to lose some
pixels around the edge.
Here's what I mean by that.
We're going to see all of that
output box filled with video.
But since they don't match,
we're going to lose some
on the sides because it's
going to have to crop it out.
Likewise,
if we have a 320x240 input source,
it's going to scale up and make sure that
we see video in every part of the box
so we lose a little bit on the sides.
Okay, it's time for our fourth use case,
which is complex graphs,
capture from multiple video
devices simultaneously.
And to demo that, I'm going to use an app
called AV Video Wall.
You might notice something
peculiar about this sample app.
It's different than all the other
sample apps we've seen up to now
because it's in all lowercase letters.
The reason for that is that
it's a command line app.
And this is another difference
between Lion and iOS.
AV Foundation has no upward
dependencies on AppKit.
It is perfectly legal and perfectly
safe to make AV Foundation tools apps,
command line tools.
We found it extremely useful to do so.
And you could also do it for kiosks or
things where you don't really need a UI,
just some video or some processing.
AV Video Wall is going to make use of
all the cameras that I have connected.
I happen to have two cameras connected.
So when I run it,
it's going to find all the
cameras that I have connected.
And it's going to build
a square for each camera,
and it's going to mirror the previews,
so it's building four previews in
a square for each input device.
Maybe I'll point this at something
more interesting like me.
And once it's got all of
these video preview layers,
you can press the space bar to
send them flying around the screen.
So now we're doing mostly
core animation effects here,
but it is live video,
so you can see I'm still talking,
I'm still getting the frame
rate that I was before.
And to send them back home,
you press the spacebar again,
and then they go back to where
they were supposed to go.
This is complex because we're
using multiple input sources,
multiple input devices,
and we're going to multiple outputs.
So this warrants some consideration.
How are we doing this?
Go back to slides.
The way we're doing this is through
the magic of AV capture connections.
AV capture connections are the glue
that holds inputs and outputs together.
I consider this to be
sort of an advanced topic,
so hang with me and hopefully
it'll all make sense at the end.
I've shown a lot of slides
today that look like this.
And this.
But what I've neglected to
show you is the thing that's
holding them all together,
which is these little
AV capture connections.
Every arrow that you see on screen
between an input and an output,
that arrow is represented
by an AV capture connection.
It describes the connectivity
between an input and an output
or a video preview layer.
The purpose of AV Capture
Connections is to,
again, describe the connectivity
between an input and an output.
Each AV capture input has an
array of AV capture input ports.
So an input can give you
more than one type of media.
An AV Capture connection ties a
specific input port to a specific
AV Capture output or video preview layer.
Also, AV capture connections can do neat
things like processing with the video or
audio data along the way to the output.
For video, AV capture connections let you
manipulate the video that's delivered
to the output by either orientation,
so you can rotate the buffers, mirroring,
so mirror them in the, I guess,
across the vertical plane, deinterlacing,
or frame rate limiting.
An audio AV capture connection
lets you manipulate or monitor the
audio data delivered to the output.
So this is where you can use your--
you can get audio level meters.
This is the audio
traveling to the output.
You can also enable or disable
individual source audio channels.
So let's say you have a pro audio device
that delivers 24 channels of audio,
and you only want the first two because
you know that your microphones are only
plugged into the first two channels.
You can use the AV capture
connection to disable all but the
first two source audio channels.
You can also adjust individual
audio channel levels using
AV capture connection.
Here's how you would use it as a status
monitor to do audio level metering.
You find the connection that you want
and get its audio channels properties.
And then for each audio channel,
get either its average power
level or peak hold level.
The average power levels tend to
jump around and the peak hold levels
stay at a peak before subsiding.
Here's how you find an
AV capture connection.
They're owned by outputs.
So an AV capture output
implements a connections property.
So you could, for instance,
call movie file output connections
to get its list of connections.
And then once you have the connections,
you can use its properties
or iterate through them.
An AV Capture video preview
layer only has one connection.
Now let's take the case that
I was talking about with multiple
inputs and multiple outputs.
The default behavior that AV Capture
uses is to greedily form connections
implicitly between all eligible
inputs and all eligible outputs.
So let's say I have a session
with no inputs or outputs,
and then I add a video data output.
If I then add a video camera
or a video device input,
The session will look for
connections that it can form.
You'll see this guy produces video,
this guy can accept video,
I'll form a connection
on behalf of the caller.
So every time you add input or add
output to an AV capture session,
you're getting an AV capture
connection implicitly.
Sometimes this breaks down though in
the desktop world where we have more
complex scenarios than we do in iOS.
Take this DV camera here.
This DV camera
produces a MUXed input stream,
and only once it is housed in
an AV capture device input can
that MUX stream be separated
into its component parts.
Which are video, audio,
and closed captions.
So if I have multiple
devices and multiple outputs,
it's not clear what
AV Capture Session should do,
which input it should try
to tie to which output.
And in a lot of cases you might
get undesirable results because it
implicitly tried to make connections
everywhere it could and connected
the wrong input to the wrong output.
So for complex situations like the
AV Video wall that I just showed you,
we have some additional
APIs to help you out.
Power users can avoid these implicit
connections by calling session
add input with no connections.
When you do that,
the input will be added to the session,
but no implicit connections
are added on your behalf.
Same goes for add output with
no connections or preview layer
set session with no connections.
If you've done that,
the input or output is not going to
provide any data because there is no
connection describing the connectivity.
So you're going to have to manually
create a connection between the desired
input ports and output or preview layer.
So in summary,
Use AV Foundation Capture
for all new development.
If your app is Lion and forward,
you absolutely should
be using AV Foundation.
AV Foundation Capture in
Lion provides more features,
more functionality, new classes that are
specific to the desktop,
including screen grabbing
and enhanced device control,
and more flexible output with the
additional kinds of output I described.
Also supported is
complex session support.
You can have multiple sessions in
your process or one session with a
very complex input and output graph.
For more information,
contact Eric Verschen,
who is our Media Technologies Evangelist,
and look online for the documentation
in AV Foundation Programming Guide.
Also, the developer forums,
devforums.apple.com,
is a great place to go with questions.
Sometimes we engineers,
although we're not paid to,
we do lurk there and we answer
questions from time to time.
Related sessions have
mostly passed already,
but they'll be great to watch on
the iTunes feed after the show.
There is one remaining
iOS-related capture session,
and that's right after this
one in about 15 minutes.
We welcome you to stay for that one.
Thank you for coming.
I hope you have a great rest of the show.
And there is one more thing.
Since we have a couple minutes remaining,
I thought we'd take this opportunity
to show you something we cooked up.
The QuickTime team for years and
years had a tradition of making a
stupid movie that we show at WWDC,
and this year was no different.
So without further ado,
here is this year's stupid movie.
Hey everybody, I've got great news!
What is it this time?
Our omnomnomnom kitten of the day video
app has just sold a billion copies!
I was able to buy my 40th car,
but now I need a second
car to house it in.
So I have decided that you need
to support our omnomnomnomkitten
video of the day app,
Back to the Mac.
[Transcript missing]
You better get started now.
Okay, you heard him.
[Transcript missing]